The Day of Black Sun, Part 2: The Eclipse
Written By: Aaron Ehasz
Directed By: Joaquim Dos Santos
Storyboard By: Joaquim Dos Santos, Ian Graham, Lauren Montgomery, Kenji Ono, Sang Jin Kim, Tomihiro Yamaguchi
Animation By: Moi Animation
Transcribers: Icy_Ashford, Psycho Silver



Act I

(The episode opens with a shot of the sun with the moon just beginning to overlap it. Cut to a shot of the submarines at the water, guarded by Hue and six other warriors. The camera tilts up to the plaza. Destroyed, smoking tanks are strewn about. Cut to an overhead shot of the plaza. Fire Nation tanks and soldiers are shooting fire blasts at the caterpillar tanks, which have formed a semi circle against the plaza wall. Cut to a close up of the caterpillar tanks. The sides flip open and earthbender lob stones at the firebenders. Cut to a shot of a Fire Nation soldier signaling the catapults to fire. The projectiles fly through the air as the earthbenders' stones and shockwaves destroy the catapults.

Cut to a shot of and zoom in on Sokka, Bato, and an earthbender examining a map on the ground from behind the tanks. Behind them, Toph shoots a rock through the side of the tank just before a fireball collides with into the tank. Sokka winces at the loud explosion. Sokka looks up and sees Katara helping Hakoda through the plaza's large doorways. He is holding his side, still wounded.)

Sokka: Dad! You're on your feet again.

(Sokka and Toph run towards Katara and Hakoda. Katara lets Hakoda sit down.)

Hakoda: Thanks to your sister. I'm in no shape to fight but maybe there is someway I could help.
Sokka: Everything's going smoothly and the eclipse hasn't even kicked in yet.
Hakoda: Let's hope our luck holds out. Katara, you seem distracted. Is something wrong?

(Katara takes a few steps forward and looks out in the distance.)

Katara: Yeah... Is that... is that Aang?
Sokka: What?

(Aang can be seen gliding towards them, dodging the numerous fireballs. He lands in front of his friends.)

Sokka: Please tell you're here because the Fire Lord turned out to be a big wimp and you didn't even need the eclipse to take him down?
Aang: He wasn't home. No one was. The entire palace city is abandoned.

(Cut to a close up of Sokka's profile. The camera rotates around to his front as he comes to a realization.)

Sokka: They knew.
Aang: It's over. The Fire Lord is probably long gone. Far away on some remote island where he'll be safe during the eclipse.
Sokka: No. My instincts tell me he wouldn't go too far. He would have a secret bunker. Somewhere he could go so it'll be safe during a siege but still be close enough to lead his nation.
Toph: If it's an underground secret bunker we're looking for, I'm just the girl to find it. 

(Sokka pulls out a small device resembling a pocket watch. It ticks, and there is a dial and notches on one section of it.)

Sokka: The Mechanist gave me this timing device. It looks like we've got about 10 minutes until the full eclipse. 10 minutes to find the Fire Lord. 
Aang: We can still do this. We can still win the day.
Katara: Wait. If they knew we were coming, it could all be a trap. Maybe we should use the time we have left to make sure all of us get out of here safely. 
Hakoda: Everyone who's here today came prepared to risk everything for this mission. They know what's at stake. If there's still a chance and there's still hope, I think they would want Aang to go for it.
Sokka: What do you think? You're the one who has to face the Fire Lord. Whatever you decide, I'm with you.

(Aang stands up and faces toward the battlefield.)

Aang: I've got to try.

(The camera zooms out and the scene fades to a shot of Appa flying towards the top of the volcano where the Fire Nation capital is. He lands on the side, and Aang, Sokka, and Toph jump off him.)

Aang: Do you feel anything down there?
Toph: (her hand to the ground) Yep. There are natural tunnels criss-crossing through the inside of the volcano. 
Sokka: Anything else? Is there a structure somewhere?
Toph: (she extends her hands to each side before plunging them into the ground, gripping the earth with her fingers) There's something big, dense, and made of metal deep in the heart of the volcano. 
Sokka: Sounds like a secret bunker to me.

(Toph thrusts her hands forward, bending a hole into the side of the volcano. Momo chirps and curiously sticks his head out from behind the headpiece on Appa's armor.)

Aang: Stay safe. We'll be back soon.

(Toph, Sokka, and Aang enter though the hole into a dark tunnel. Toph kneels down and feels the ground before running down one side of the tunnel. Sokka and Aang quickly follow.)

Toph: This way! That one's a dead end.
Sokka: What would we do without you?
Toph: Perish and burn in hot magma.

(They crawl past a small stream of lava and Sokka flinches away from it.)

Sokka: Yeah, pretty much.

(The three of them come to a cavern filled with active lava vents all over the floor.)

Toph: The tunnel continues on the other side and it leads right to the bunker.
Sokka: We'll have to be fast but careful. 

(Sokka attempts to run across, but is immediately stopped by one of the vents erupting. He yells in surprise and shields himself as Aang swings his staff at it, bending a gust of wind and cooling down the lava.)

Aang: How was that careful?
Sokka: I was wrong. We need to be fast, careful and lucky.

(Toph, Aang, and Sokka run across the cavern, carefully dodging the steam and lava coming from the vents. Cut to a shot of the three from the front, covered in a red glow. They all stop and look dismayed. The camera quickly zooms out to reveal them standing on a small cliff above a large river of lava.)

Sokka: There's no floor! It's just a river of lava. 

(Aang spins his staff and extends the glider wings.)

Aang: Climb aboard and hold on tight.

(Cut to a shot of Sokka and Toph holding on to the top of Aang's glider as he glides through the lava tunnel, screaming with fright. Aang banks left and right, avoiding a stone column and a lava explosion. They all make it to the other side and land easily before continuing on foot. Cut to an overhead shot of the cavern floor. The camera zooms out and tilts up to show Aang, Toph, and Sokka running up to a large metal bunker built against the cavern wall.)

Sokka: That's some door!

(Toph walks up to the door, places her ear against it, and knocks on it, producing a metallic thud.)

Toph: Not a problem. 

(Toph takes a step back before bashing her elbows into the door, fracturing and denting it. She takes another step back, kisses her middle and index fingers, and forcefully stabs them through the middle of the door. Toph kicks a hole through the metal. Cut to a shot of the other side of the door as Toph's leg bursts through. She widens the opening and steps through. With sound effect added, Toph points in a direction and takes off, followed by Aang and Sokka.) 

Sokka: I am so glad we added you to the group.

(Cut to an overhead shot of the Fire Nation capital. The camera tilts down to the invasion force making their way up the path towards the top. Cut to an overhead shot of three caterpillar tanks and a legion of soldiers moving up the path while fireballs are flung at them. Cut to a shot of a Fire Nation battlement from below as a firebender throws fireballs from it. The camera zooms out to show the fireball hitting the metal shields that the earthbenders are carrying over their heads. The Boulder and the Hippo run towards the cliffside under the battlement, slap their hands against it, and earthbend an avalanche, demolishing the battlement. The same is done to another battlement. Cut to a shot of one of the Fire Nation commanding officers. The camera rotates around him as he turns around and looks at the sky. The moon is slowly starting to move over the sun.)

Fire Nation Fighter #1: Retreat! Everyone move to secondary defensive position! Retreat! 

(The battlement behind him tips over and falls over. Three firebenders retreat as three caterpillar tanks draw close to them. Cut to a shot of Bato hanging on the back of one of the tanks, addressing the other soldiers.)

Bato: The eclipse is only minutes away. We should be able to make it up the hill by the time it starts and secure the entire palace by the time it's finished!

(The soldiers all give a hearty battle cry. Cut to Katara holding Hakoda over her shoulder.)

Katara: We can wait here if you want.
Hakoda: No. I want to press forward with the others. 

(Katara and Hakoda continue forward. Cut to a shot of the rafters inside the Fire Nation bunker. The camera tilts down to War Minister Qin walking down a tunnel. The camera zooms out to show Aang, Sokka, and Toph running down a tunnel on the other side that merges with the first one. Qin whistles a tune just as he comes to the end of the wall and the three kids run past him. He gasps in shock, alerting the three to his presence. The turn around and brandish their weapons at him, Toph stomping the ground and popping a rocking into the air. Qin presses his back against the wall and raises his hands in surrender.)

War Minister Qin: The Fire Lord's chamber is that way down the hall to the left and up the stairs. You can't miss it. 

(Aang, Sokka, and Toph all step in closer to him. Cut to a shot from just above Qin's head of Aang and Sokka glaring up at him.)

Aang: (suddenly smiles cheerfully) Thanks.

(They leave Qin, Sokka giving him one last dirty look. Once their gone, Qin breathes a sigh of relief, looks left and right to make sure no one saw anything, composes himself and continues walking and whistling as if nothing happened. Cut to a shot of the tunnel floor's level as Aang, Sokka, and Toph run past. Sokka pulls out the Mechanist's device and checks their time.)

Sokka: Only 30 seconds until the total eclipse.

(Cut to a shot of the three coming to another large door with a flame symbol on the front and at the top. Aang takes a deep breath and closes his eyes. Cut to a close up of Aang.)

Aang: I'm ready. I'm ready to face the Fire Lord. 

(The camera zooms out just as Aang spins his staff up and forward. Cut to a shot of the other side of the door as it is blown off its hinges by Aang's blast of air. The camera zooms way out to show that the room is one large hall supported by thick metal beams on both sides, lit by torchlight. There is a single throne at the end of the hall. Cut to a shot from the front of the hall as Aang, Sokka, and Toph run inside. Azula is lounging on the throne.)

Azula: So, you are alive after all. 

(Cut to a shot of Aang in utter, speechless shock. Zoom out to show all three of them. Sokka is as shocked as Aang. Cut to a shot of the bottom of the throne and tilt up towards Azula.)

Azula: I had a hunch that you survived. It doesn't matter, I've known about the invasion for months.

(Cut to a profile shot of Aang, still shocked, before the scene cuts to a shot of Zuko from behind, standing in front of a much smaller door within the tunnels. He has his broadswords slung on his back. Cut to a shot of him from a low angle.)

Zuko: I'm ready to face you. 

(Cut to a shot of the other side of the door and zoom out as Zuko slides it open. There are elite guards with spears standing at the front. Cut to a shot of Fire Lord Ozai. He is just about to take a sip from a steaming cup of tea when he notices Zuko.)

Fire Lord Ozai: Prince Zuko, what are you doing here? 

(Cut to a shot from behind Ozai and zoom out. Zuko walks towards the line of guards. Cut to commercial.)



Act II

(The show returns with a shot of the moon passing over the sun, covering almost all of it. Cut to a far, overhead shot of the invasion force on the side of the volcano. The camera shifts over to focus of the capital in the crater. Shift to a close shot of water tribe warriors marching up the volcano. A tank passes by on the other side. The Mechanist walks on screen and looks back.)

The Mechanist: The eclipse is starting. Put on your eclipse glasses.

(The Mechanist takes off his monocle and places a visor with thin slits over his eyes. The warriors stop marching for a moment and do the same before continuing on. Cut to a shot of Katara and Hakoda with their eclipse glasses on as they look towards the sun. Cut to a shot of the eclipse as the moon completely blacks out the sun. The scene cuts to Zuko standing in front of Ozai and his guards.)

Fire Lord Ozai: Why are you here? 
Zuko: I'm here to tell the truth. 
Fire Lord Ozai: Telling the truth during the middle of an eclipse. This should be interesting. 

(Ozai waves his hand and his guards leave through doors on both sides of the chamber.)

Zuko: First of all, in Ba Sing Se, it was Azula who took down the Avatar, not me. 
Fire Lord Ozai: Why would she lie to me about that? 
Zuko: Because the Avatar is not dead. He survived. 
Fire Lord Ozai: (alarmed) What?!
Zuko: In fact, he probably is leading this invasion. He could be on us right now. 
Fire Lord Ozai: (stands up and points, furious) Get out! Get out of my sight right now if you know what's good for you. 
Zuko: That's another thing. I'm not taking orders from you anymore. 
Fire Lord Ozai: (seething with rage) You will obey me or this defiant breathe will be your last! 

(Ozai begins to walk towards Zuko, until Zuko unsheathes his broadswords and brandishes them at him.)

Zuko: Think again! I am going to speak my mind and you are going to listen. 

(Cut to a close up of Ozai as he sits back down before the scene cuts to a shot of Aang, Toph, and Sokka, ready to fight.)

Aang: Where is he? Where is the Fire Lord? 
Azula: (sarcastically) Hm, you mean I'm not good enough for you? You're hurting my feelings. 
Sokka: (brandishes his sword) Stop wasting our time and give us the information. You're powerless right now so you're in no position to refuse. 
Toph: And stick to the truth. I'll be able to tell if you're lying. 
Azula: Are you sure? I'm a pretty good liar. (her face becomes completely expressionless) I am a 400 foot tall purple platypus bear with pink horns and silver wings.
Toph: (after a brief pause) Okay you're good, I admit it. (bends the earth underneath Azula so that it encases her is a conical shape)  But you really ought to consider telling the truth anyway.

(Azula gives a small smirk. The camera zooms out from her as the stone trap shatters. Sokka, Aang, and Toph are all shocked. Azula keeps smirking as she brushes some rubble off her shoulder.)

Azula: When I left Ba Sing Se, I brought home some souvenirs. (two Dai Li agents drop from the ceiling and land in front of her) Dai Li agents.

(Aang swings his staff at them, throwing out a blast of wind. The Dai Li both bend a stone wall in front and completely nullify the attack. The scene cuts to the invasion force making its way to the edge of the crater. The camera tilts up towards the Fire Nation royal palace. Cut to a shot of Bato standing at the edge. Warriors and two tanks make their way past him and over the edge.)

Bato: Surround the periphery! We have to secure the palace by the time the eclipse is over. Otherwise, we'll be in for the fight of our lives.

(Bato makes his way down with the rest of them. The tanks and soldiers reach the edge of the capital and make their way in. Cut to a shot of a group of firebenders lining themselves up in one of the alleys. Haru, Tyro, and a group of earthbenders come to face them.)

Tyro: Stop! Surrender peacefully and we won't harm you.
Fire Nation Fighter #2: We'll never surrender. (he steps forward, makes flailing movements with his arms, dashes forward and thrusts his palm forward as if to shoot a fire ball, but all that is produced is a pathetic fizzle)Er okay, we surrender.

(He and the other firebenders bow down and present their hands in surrender. Shift to Katara and Hakoda climbing up to the edge of the crater, looking down at the Fire Nation capital as the soldiers and tanks head to the palace.)

Hakoda: There it is. The Fire Nation royal palace. We've come so far. 
Katara: It's not over yet. 

(Both begin to head down. The scene cuts to Zuko and Ozai in the bunker.)

Zuko: For so long, all I wanted was you to love me, to accept me. I thought it was my honor that I wanted but really, I was just trying to please you. You, my father, who banished me just for talking out of turn. (points a sword at Ozai) My father, who challenged me; a 13-year-old boy to an Agni Kai. How can you possibly justify a duel with a child? 
Fire Lord Ozai: It was to teach you respect.
Zuko: It was cruel! And it was wrong. 
Fire Lord Ozai: Then you have learned nothing.
Zuko: No, I've learnt everything! And I had to learn it on my own. Growing up, we were taught that the Fire Nation was the greatest civilization in history and somehow, the war was our way of sharing our greatness with the rest of the world. What an amazing lie that was. The people of the world are terrified by the Fire Nation! They don't see our greatness, they hate us! And we deserve it. We've created an era of fear in the world. And if we don't want the world to destroy itself, we need to replace it with an era of peace and kindness.
Fire Lord Ozai: (laughs mocking) Your Uncle has gotten to you, hasn't he?
Zuko: (closes his eyes for a second) Yes. He has. 

(Zuko smiles.

 Ozai can only frown in disapproval. The scene cuts to a stone wall just as it explodes and reveals Aang, Sokka, and Toph running towards the camera. A stone structure erupts from the floor where Aang is standing, but he jumps away from it and jumps off one of the metal beams and flips forward. The two Dai Li agents pull two slabs from the ground and fling them at Aang, but he deflects them with two kicks. The camera zooms out just as Toph bursts through the stone behind Aang, creating a hole in it. She lands between the agents and bends two diagonal pillars of stone up from beneath them as she lands, pushing them towards the walls. The agents both land of the walls feet first and both bend a pillar of stone down at Toph, who blocks the attacks by bending two stone walls up from the floor. 

Toph thrusts her hands forwards and bends a stream of earth at Azula. Cut to a shot of the stream from the side as it makes contact with Azula. The scene goes into slow motion and cuts to a shot of Azula's foot as the stream of earth pushes her up into the air. The scene comes back to normal speed to a shot of Azula back flipping off the attack and flying back towards the throne. Cut to a close up of Azula smirking as she lands. 

Cut to Aang as he runs forward. Cut to a shot from behind one of the Dai Li's back as he watches Aang and runs to the side. Cut to a close up of Aang from the side as he's running. He turns and stops when he hears a loud, grinding sound. Cut to a shot of the Dai Li agent sliding over the side of the wall and past Aang. He flings himself off the wall and in front of Aang with a pillar of earth, putting himself in front of Azula. The agent sinks into the floor as he lands and bends a large, diagonal wall of stone of from the floor. Aang jumps high into the air, flips forward, and bursts through the wall feet first. Cut to a shot from the side as Aang lands behind the Dai Li agent, popping him into the air as he lands with one small pillar of stone and knocking him away with a larger one, knocking the agent out of the fight. Aang spins his staff above his head, letting go of it as he turns forward, winds up, and shoots a powerful blast of air with one hand at Azula. 

Cut to a closer shot of Azula as she grabs on to the arms of the throne and cartwheels away just before the throne is completely destroyed by the air blast. Aang dashes to where Azula was and swings his staff as her, bending out a blade of air. Cut to a shot of Azula running between two metal beams. She jumps over the blade of air and at the beam, then flips off that one back towards the beam behind her. Cut to a close up of Azula landing on the side of the beam just before spring off it as another blade of air barely misses her. 

Cut to a shot of Azula barrel rolling and doing the splits as she lands on the ground. There is a brief close up of Azula just before she runs off, Aang chasing after. Cut to an overhead shot of Azula running behind the metal beams. She jumps onto and jumps off a beam just as Aang sends another blade of air at her. Azula continues running forward and hopping from the wall to the beams and up to one of the stone beams the Dai Li agents had attacked Toph with. Aang does a small pole vault with his staff and kicks a blast of air at Azula, but misses. Cut to a shot of Azula sliding down the stone beam. She jumps off the diagonal wall Toph had created to block the attack earlier and lands on the other one before flipping off of it and landing on the floor. 

Cut to a close up of Azula as she turns and faces Aang. Aang and Toph run at her. Azula turns and runs towards the large stone wall. Cut to a shot of the other Dai Li agent sliding down the stone beam towards the floor and Azula. The agents lands behind her and then bends a pillar up from beneath her, sending Azula into the air towards the hole in the wall that Toph had made. Cut to a close up of the hole as Sokka climbs up into it. Cut to a shot from behind Sokka as Azula flies towards him. The scene goes into slow motion and cut to a close up of Azula passing just inches above Sokka's face as he ducks down. She smirks down at him while he looks back at her fearfully. 

The scene comes back to full speed as Azula lands on the other side of the wall and runs towards the exit. Cut to a shot of Sokka as he tries to climb back down. He stops and ducks timidly as the Dai Li agent, Toph, and Aang jump over him and through the hole, one at a time. Sokka drops down and follows after. Cut to a close up of Toph from the side as she chases after Azula. Aang catches up to her from the side.)

Aang: I can't pin her down. She's too quick.

(Cut to a shot from the front of Aang, Toph, and Sokka running forward. Toph strafes to the side and off screen. Cut to a shot from inside the tunnels of Azula running out the doors and towards the camera. The Dai Li agent slides out of the room and blocks the entrance with a large stone. The Dai Li agent slides over the ground and after Azula just as Aang bursts through the stone and continues chasing them. Cut to a shot from the ground level of Azula and the agent running away from the camera. The Dai Li agent is knocked to the side by a
stone pillar ejecting out of the side of the wall. A hole opens in the side of
the wall and Toph flies out of it. Cut to a shot of the agent hitting the inside of the groove of one of the steel beams supporting the tunnel. He tries to attack, but Toph smashes his stone gloves into dust before grabbing both sides of the beam's grooves and pulling them in, trapping the agent. 

Cut to a close up of Toph admiring her work. Aang runs past her and she follows. Cut to a shot of Aang and Toph running down the tunnel and past the camera. Sokka catches up to them.)

Sokka: Wait! Aang, Toph, stop attacking. (Aang, Toph, and Azula all stop running) Don't you see what she's doing? She's just playing with us. She's not even trying to win this fight! 
Azula: (sarcastically) Not true, I'm giving it my all. 
Toph: You're trying to keep us here and waste all our time!
Azula: Um, right. I think your friend just said that genius. And since you can't see, I should tell you I'm rolling my eyes. 
Toph: (angry)I 'll roll your whole head!
Sokka: She's just baiting you again. 
Aang: Okay, so what do we do? Just ignore her? 
Sokka: We don't have a choice. We just have to get out of here and find the Fire Lord on our own somehow.

(Aang, Sokka, and Toph turn and walk away from Azula.)

Azula: It's a trap. Don't say I didn't warn you.

(Aang and Toph stop and turn to Azula for a moment, but Sokka keeps walking, waving a hand back at her.)

Sokka: (spreading one arm wide over his head in a gesture of dismissal) Ignore!
Azula: (in a slightly bored tone) So, Sokka's your name right My favorite prisoner used to mention you all the time. (Sokka stops and turns around) She was convinced that you were going to come rescue her. Of course, you never came and she gave up on you. 

(The camera zooms in on Sokka. Tears fill his eyes and he gives a furious cry of anger as he rushes at Azula. Cut to a close up of Azula as she smirks smugly.)

Azula: (under her breath, dripping with malice) Come and get it...

(Cut to a shot of Azula's hand as she slips a deadly, ornate blade from her sleeve. Cut to a shot of Toph as she senses the deception. The camera zooms out as she raises her knee, which raises a stone into the air, and shoots it forward with a thrust of her hands. Cut to a shot of Azula's wrist being pinned against the wall by the stone, the blade dropping from her hand. Azula grunts in pain as she hits the wall. Sokka grabs Azula's shoulder, pushes her up again the wall, and glares into her eyes.)

Sokka: Where is Suki?!

(The scene shifts to a far shot of Zuko and Ozai from the side.)

Zuko: After I leave here today, I'm going to free Uncle Iroh from his prison and I'm going to beg for his forgiveness. He is the one who has been a real father to me. 
Fire Lord Ozai: (chuckles sarcastically) That's just beautiful. Maybe he can pass down to you the ways of tea and failure. 
Zuko: But I've come to an even more important decision. (pauses I'm going to join the Avatar. And I'm going to help him defeat you. 
Fire Lord Ozai: (grinning slyly) Really? Since you're a full blown traitor now and you want me gone, why wait? I'm powerless, you've got your
swords, why don't you just do it now?
Zuko: Because I know my own destiny. Taking you down is the Avatar's destiny. (sheathes his swords) Goodbye. 

(Cut to a close up of the right side of Zuko's face as he walks away. Ozai can be seen behind him.)

Fire Lord Ozai: (standing) Coward! You think you're brave enough to face me but you'll only do it during an eclipse. If you have any real courage, you'll stick around until the Sun comes out. Don't you want to know what happened to your Mother?

(Cut to a shot from behind Zuko as he stops in front of the doors and turns around. Cut to a close up of Ozai as he grins venomously. Cut to a shot of the tallest tower of the Fire Nation palace, the eclipse in the sky, before cutting to commercial.)



Act III

(The episode returns with a close up of the lower edge of the eclipse. Cut to a shot from behind Zuko as he stands before Ozai.)

Zuko: What happened that night? 
Fire Lord Ozai: My father, Fire Lord Azulon, had commanded me to do the unthinkable to you, my own son. And I was going to do it. Your Mother had found out and swore she would protect you at any cost. She knew I wanted the throne and she proposed a plan. A plan in which I would become Fire Lord and your life would be spared. 

(There is a close up of Zuko's eyes. Cut to a close up of Sokka.)

Sokka: (angry) Where's Suki?! Answer me! 

(Cut to a shot from the side of Sokka glaring at Azula, her arms pinned above her head against the wall.)

Aang: (grabbing Sokka's shoulder) Sokka, she won't talk. 
Sokka: (hesitates, then turns back to Azula) Where are you keeping her?!

(Cut to a close up of Azula and zoom in as she smirks silently. Fade to a shot of Ozai at exactly the same angle.)

Fire Lord Ozai: Your Mother did vicious, treasonous things that night. She knew the consequences and accepted them. For her treason, she was banished.
Zuko: (a tear streams from his eye) So she's alive.
Fire Lord Ozai: Perhaps. Now I realize that banishment is far too merciful a penalty for treason. Your penalty will be far steeper. 

(Fade to the shot of the edge of the eclipse. The moon passes over and the rays of the sun shine through. Cut to a close up of Ozai's eye quickly opening. Cut to a shot of Ozai stepping forward and swinging his arms out, creating two arcs of electricity from the tips of his fingers. He thrusts his fingers forward and fires an incredible bolt of lightning at Zuko. Cut to a shot from the side as Zuko catches the lightning with the tips of his fingers. Zuko slides backward from the force of the attack, the lightning surrounding his body and making his hair stand on end. Zuko sinks his body down and pulls his arms in as the electricity runs through his body, then thrusts his other hand forward, redirecting the lightning in Ozai's direction. Cut to a shot from the side as the bolt strikes the ground where Ozai is standing, creating an explosion that knocks Ozai against the wall and the tapestry behind him. Cut to a close up of Ozai as he straightens up, his hair falling over his face. The camera zooms out as the tapestry falls down and a fire caused by the explosion burns in front of Ozai. Cut to a shot from behind Ozai to reveal that Zuko has fled.

Cut to a close up of Azula.)

Azula: Oh. Sounds like the firebending's back on. 

(The camera quickly zooms out as Azula kicks her leg upward and creates an arc of blue fire, making Sokka jump back in surprise. She thrusts he foot forward and shoots a fireball at Sokka. He is saved from the attack by Toph, who jumps in and pushes him out of the way. Azula flips up and places her feet on the wall. Cut to a close up of Azula straining herself to break her arms free. She grins as the rock trapping her there explodes in a blue flame. She springs off the wall towards Aang and flips forward. Aang jumps out of the way as Azula lands with a fiery heel drop where he was standing. Aang, Sokka, and Toph all ready themselves for another attack. Cut to a shot of Azula standing up and turning to them.)

Azula: Dad's all the way at the end of the hall and down the secret stairway on the left. I'm sure he'll be more than happy to see you now. 

(Azula quickly runs away down the tunnel.)

Sokka: I fell for it! I used up all our time. 
Toph: It's not your fault, Sokka. Azula was ready for us. She had every move planned out. 
Sokka: (hopeless) And now it's too late. 
Aang: Maybe it's not too late. The eclipse is over but I can face the Fire Lord anyway.
Sokka: No. I don't think that's a good idea. 
Aang: But I'm ready! I came here with a job to do and everyone's counting on me. 
Toph: The Fire Lord knew we were coming this time. We thought we had surprise on our side but we didn't. It just wasn't our day. What we need to do now is go help our friends. 
Aang: I guess you guys are right.
Sokka: (putting a hand on Aang's shoulder) You'll have another chance. I know you will.

(Cut to an overhead shot of the palace surrounded by the tanks and warriors. Cut to a shot of Katara laying Hakoda against one of the tanks. They both take off their eclipse glasses.)

Bato: (off screen) What should we do, Hakoda? Shouldn't something have happened by now? 
Hakoda: I don't know. But now that the eclipse is over I expect we're going to see some firebenders any minute.

(Cut to a shot of Bato as he suddenly looks up in shock. The camera zooms out to show Katara turning to look in the same direction. Cut to a shot of the palace and zoom out as five Fire Nation war balloons ascend into the air. Cut to a closer shot of the balloons from the side, showing firebenders powering them.)

The Mechanist: (off screen) My own invention. Oh this is terrible! 

(Teo silently places a consoling hand on his father's shoulder. Cut to a shot of one of the war balloons. Behind it ascends an enormous zeppelin. Cut to a shot from ground level as everyone stares up at the five war balloons along with five huge zeppelins decorated with dragon motifs. Cut to a shot of Bato, Katara, and Hakoda. Katara turns and points into the sky.)

Katara: They're back!

(Katara runs forward. Cut to a shot of Appa, carrying Aang, Sokka, and Toph, flying towards the camera. Cut to a shot from behind Aang's head as he looks up at the war balloons. Cut to a close of Aang from the front, his expression worried. Cut to a panning right shot of the side of one of the zeppelins. Cut to a shot of Appa landing and Katara running up to him. Cut to a shot of Aang looking down at Katara uneasily. The camera turns to Sokka, Toph, and Momo in Appa's saddle.)

Sokka: It was all a trap. Azula knew we were coming and she's plotted out every move. (he and Toph jump down from Appa)We just got to get to the beach as fast as we can. If we can make it to the submarines, maybe we can get away safely. 
Aang: (off screen) They've got air power, but so do I! (opens his glider) I'm going to do what I can to slow them down. 

(Aang throws his glider into the air. He catches onto it and flies into the air as it loops back to him. Appa growls. Katara climbs on him.) 

Katara: Appa, you and I can help too.

(Cut to Aang flying towards the zeppelins in the distance, Appa and Katara follow behind. Cut to Sokka, Toph, Hakoda, and Bato.)

Sokka: Everyone, let's get back to the subs! 

(They all turn and follow Sokka. Cut to a shot from the front of Aang gliding, Appa and Katara behind him. The camera follows him as he glides past the camera and towards the small war balloons. Cut to a shot of a firebender shooting two fireballs at Aang, who banks and rolls to avoid the attack. He then throws his glider forward, closes it, grabs the end of it, and pierces straight through the fabric of the balloon. Air leaks from the war balloon and it goes down as Aang glides on towards the zeppelins. Cut to a shot of Katara in Appa's saddle from behind her. The camera focuses in on an approaching war balloon. Katara stands up and bends the water out from her flasks. With a swift rotation of her arms and body, Katara makes a clean, horizontal cut through the balloon. She and Appa fly past the camera, and after a brief moment, the top of the war balloon flutters away and the bottom part drops.

Cut to a shot of Appa, Katara, and Aang flying up towards the zeppelins. The camera tilts upward as countless fireballs are shot of them. Cut to a shot of Aang, Appa, and Katara flying towards the camera. A few fireballs hit Appa and he growls in discomfort, but his armor protects him. Appa tries to fly in close, but is driven back by the force of the fire blasts. Cut to a shot from behind of firebenders standing on small platforms under the body of a zeppelin. They are in harnesses attached to supports above them. The shoot fire blasts at Appa as he flies right past them. Cut to a shot of Katara creating a shield of water to block the oncoming fireballs. Aang glides on screen in the background.)

Katara: We can't keep them all back. They're too many of them! 
Aang: Let's join the others.

(Aang barely dodges another fireball. Cut to a shot of Aang and Appa flying over the capital and back towards the ocean. The scene shifts to a shot of the top of the Fire Nation prison. The camera tilts down to the entrance. There are multiple craters in the stone wall and stairs. Zuko runs in from behind the camera and towards the door. Cut to a shot inside the prison of a guard lying on the floor. He looks up, and then winces as Zuko runs past him. Zuko runs down the hall and towards a doorway. Cut to a shot looking through the doorway as Zuko runs to it.)

Zuko: Uncle! 

(Cut to a shot from behind Zuko and zoom in on the interior of the cell. There is a huge hole in the cage, and the surrounding bars are bents outward. Warden Poon is lying on the floor, dazed. Zuko runs in and grabs Poon by the collar.)

Zuko: Where is my Uncle? 
Warden Poon: (shocked and awed) He's gone. He busted himself out. I... I've never seen anything like it! He was like a one man army!

(Zuko lets go of Poon and exits. Cut to Sokka running down the slope towards the plaza, the others following behind. He stops and looks up. The camera pans up to the zeppelins high in the air, slowing making their way towards them. Cut to a shot of the bottom of one of the zeppelins. Bomb bay doors open up. Cut to Sokka as Aang, Appa, and Katara land behind him.)

Sokka: Try and find cover! I think we're about to see some bombs.

(Everyone huddles together as Toph bends a large slab of stone above them. Cut to a shot looking up at the zeppelins as large red, cylinder shaped bombs drop from them. Cut to a shot from the inside of the bomb bay looking down as the bombs hit the ground and explode. Cut to a shot of the bombs impacting the stone shields protecting the invasion forces. The camera tilts down to the group Toph is protecting. The slab cracks and begins to fall, but Toph bends two stone supports up from the ground to keep it standing. Cut to a shot of the
caterpillar tanks quickly making their way down the slope as bombs go off all around them. Cut to the interior of one of the tanks as The Boulder, The Hippo,
and other earthbenders are knocked off balance by the explosions. Cut to a shot above the zeppelins as they pass over, ceasing the raid. Cut to a shot of Sokka, Aang, Toph, and Katara coming out from under the stone and looking up at the zeppelins as they fly towards the beach.)

Katara: Why aren't they turning around to attack us again? 
Aang: They're headed for the beach. They're going to destroy the submarines!
Sokka: How are we all going to escape?
Hakoda: We're not.
Sokka: Then our only choice is to stand and fight. We have the Avatar, we could still win! 
Hakoda: Yes, with the Avatar we could still win on another day. You kids have to leave. You have to escape on Appa together.
Katara: What? We can't leave you behind. We won't leave anyone behind. 
Hakoda: You're our only chance in a long run. You and Sokka have to go with Aang somewhere safe. It's the only way to keep hope alive. 
Bato: The youngest of our group should go with you. The adults will stay behind and surrender. We'll be prisoners but we'll all survive this battle. 
Tyro: I've got some experience with the Fire Nation prisons. It's not going to be easy but we'll get by. 
Sokka: They're at the beach already!

(Cut to a shot of the plaza ground. The camera tilts up to the submarines and the swamp benders as the shadow of a zeppelin passes over. Cut to a shot from ground level looking up at the seaweed creature created by Hue. The zeppelins fly overhead and begin to drop more bombs. Due and Tho bend water from the ocean, swinging their arms in windmill motions to send the water into the air and intercept the bombs. The bombs explode in midair. Hue grabs two oncoming bombs with his seaweed arms. He tosses one away, but the other explodes, destroying the arm of the seaweed creature. Another bomb lodges itself inside the body of the creature and explodes, destroying it. The seaweed falls on top of Due and Tho. Hue, Due, and Tho stick their heads out from the pile of steaming seaweed. Cut to a shot from the side of the bombs falling on the submarines. One by one they explode and are destroyed. A bomb falls in front of the camera and explodes. The smoke clears and we see a shot of the destroyed submarines from above. The camera pans left as they burn away. Cut to Aang and his friends as the look on with despair. The camera pans to Sokka, who shuts his eyes and grudgingly accepts the turn of events.

Cut to a shot of Appa's saddle. Toph and The Mechanist, who is carrying Teo, rise up to Appa's back on a platform of stone that Toph is bending. Toph hops in the saddle and The Mechanist places Teo down in it, hugging him in goodbye.)

The Mechanist: Bye, son. 
Teo: (sadly) Bye, Dad. I'm really proud of you. 

(Toph lowers The Mechanist back to the ground. He takes one last look at Teo. Cut to a shot of The Duke trying to climb onto Appa's head. Pipsqueak helps him up.)

The Duke: I'll miss you, Pipsqueak. 
Pipsqueak: Take care, The Duke. 

(Cut to Haru and Tyro hugging each other goodbye. The duke can be seen climbing up Appa in the background.)

Haru: I'll be back for you Dad. 
Tyro: If we don't escape on our own first. 

(Haru puts his fist into his hand and bows respectfully to his father. Cut to Sokka, Hakoda, and Katara.)

Hakoda: We lost today but we've never been this close. We tasted victory and that counts for something. 
Katara: We'll miss you Dad.

(Katara, Sokka, and Hakoda have one last group hug.)

Sokka: Bye Dad. We won't be apart for too long this time. I promise.

(Cut to a shot of Aang from behind. He's on his knees on top of Appa's head, with Momo sitting next to him. Katara walks up to him and places a hand on his shoulder. Cut to a close up of Aang to show him crying. He glances at Katara, who smiles at him. He looks away and wipes his eyes before standing up and addressing the rest of the invasion force.)

Aang: Thank you all for being so brave and so strong. I'm going to make this up to you. 

(Katara jumps into the saddle and Aang sits down. Momo climbs on to Aang's shoulder and Appa takes off. Cut to a shot of Aang's back as Appa flies away from the camera and into the distance. Katara and Sokka both look back. Cut to an overhead shot of the adults and zoom out as they stare upward. Cut to a shot of Appa in the distance. One of the zeppelins slowly flies on screen between Appa and the camera. Cut to a shot of the inside of the zeppelins gondola. The captain and Azula watch Appa fly away through a window.)

Captain: Should we follow them, Princess? 
Azula: No. They're too fast. It doesn't matter, they'll be back. 

(The camera zooms in on Azula before cutting to a shot of Aang and the other on Appa from the front. They look back at the zeppelin as they fly away. Aang turns back to the front.)

Aang: I know just the place for us to go where we'll be safe for a while. The Western Air Temple.

(Appa flies forward. Cut to a shot of Appa flying far into the distant clouds. A single Fire Nation war balloon flies on screen from below, following them. Cut to a shot of Zuko in the balloon's basket, holding on to the ropes and staring off at Appa. The camera zooms in on him. Fade to white.)



[End Credits]
Back to overviewBack to top