The Awakening
Written By: Aaron Ehasz
Directed By: Giancarlo Volpe
Storyboard By: Michael Chang, Dean Kelly, Juan Meza Leon, Bobby Rubio, Giancarlo Volpe, Tomihiro Yamaguchi
Animation By: Moi Animation
Transcribers: Avatar_Mom, Psycho Silver



["Previously on Avatar" sequence, including clips from "The Crossroads of Destiny".]



Act I

(The episode opens with a shot of Aang asleep. Aang begins to awaken as the camera zooms out. He sits up and groans. Bandages cover his arms and abdomen. Cut to Aang's p.o.v. He stares at the floor, his vision blurry and his head swaying. Cut back to Aang sitting on his bed.)

Aang:  (clutching his stomach) What happened? 

(Aang looks to the side and the camera zooms out to reveal that he is inside a room on a Fire Nation ship. The camera cuts to a banner on the wall, then to Aang looking shocked. Aang turns around and sees the large tapestry with the Fire Nation insignia hanging on the wall behind him.)

Aang: Oh no!

(Aang scrambles offthe bed. Cut to a shot of the room's door. The metal latch squeaks as Aang opens it and peers outside. Aang slowly hobbles down it the dimly lit hallway, teetering from side to side while using his staff and the wall for support. Cut to a shot of Aang coming to a corner. He looks around it and sees two Fire Nation soldiers, one very tall and carrying a club, and the other very tiny.)

Tall Fire Nation Soldier: You hear something? 

(Aang gasps and puts his back to the wall before turning the corner and swinging his staff and bending a strong gust of wind at the soldiers. The soldiers shield themselves from the attack and Aang runs down the corridor.) 

Tall Fire Nation Soldier: He's awake! 

(Cut to a shot of Aang desperately trying to get away from the soldiers, still using his staff for support. The soldiers round the corner and follow after him.) 

Tall Fire Nation Soldier: Stop, wait!

(Aang tries to escape, looking back at the soldiers. He comes to a small flight of stairs leading to the deck and climbs up. Aang tries to jump off the steps and onto the deck. Cut to a shot from the deck of Aang falling down. He loses his grip on his staff and it slides across the deck. The dark sky indicates that it is night. Cut to a shot of the staff. The camera follows it as it slides and comes to a stop in front of Hakoda, Bato, and Momo. Hakoda and Bato are dressed as Fire Nation soldiers and Momo is having his chin scratched by Hakoda. They look down at the staff. Cut to Aang, who has a surprised look on his face.)

Aang: (confused) Momo?

(Cut back to Momo, Hakoda, and Bato as they all turn and look at Aang. Momo chirps happily and leaps towards the camera. Aang picks himself off the floor as Momo jumps on to Aang's shoulders and licks his cheek.)

Toph: (off screen) Twinkle-Toes, that's got to be you.

(Cut to a shot of Toph and Katara running towards Aang excitedly. Cut to a shot behind Aang, the camera positioned over his shoulders. Standing in front of Aang are Hakoda, Bato, and a shorter Fire Nation soldier wearing firebender armor. Toph, Katara, and the tiny Fire Nation soldier, who is The Duke, walk on camera from the right, while the tall Fire Nation soldier, who is actually Pipsqueak, runs in from the left.)

Katara: Aang, you're awake!
Aang: Are you sure? (rubs his eyes) I feel like I'm dreaming. (Aang is caught off guard when Katara runs up and embraces him.)
Katara: You're not dreaming. You're finally awake. (Katara lets go and the person dressed as a Fire Nation soldier walks up to Aang and gives him a quick hug.)
Sokka: Aang, good to see you back with the living, buddy.
Aang: (confused) Sokka?

(Cut to a close up of Aang looking very exhausted and confused. The camera rotates around him as he begins to faint.)

Toph: Uh-oh! Somebody catch him, he's gonna...

(Katara runs to catch Aang, but he falls. The camera turns up towards the night sky and fades to black at the sound of Aang hitting the deck.)

Aang: Ughh.

(Cut to an overhead shot of the deck. All of Aang's friends are gathered around him. Appa walks in from off screen and groans softly. Cut to a shot of the entire port side of the Fire Nation ship as it rushes through the sea past the mountain on the other side. The shot fades into a similar shot of a royal Fire Nation ship in the open ocean. Cut to a shot of Zuko, his back to the camera, standing at the edge of the deck. The moon shines brightly through the clouds. Cut to a close up of Zuko.)

Mai: (walking onscreen) Aren't you cold? 
Zuko: I've got a lot on my mind. It's been so long. Over three years since I was home. I wonder what's changed. I wonder how I've changed.
Mai: (sighs)I just asked if you were cold. I didn't ask for your whole life story. (smiles and wrapsher arms around Zuko) Stop worrying.

(Mai pulls Zuko's face closer. Cut to a very close shot of Zuko and Mai sharing a kiss. Mai lets go of Zuko and walks off screen. Cut to a close up of Zuko's closed eyes. The camera zooms in as he slowly opens them. The scene cuts to an overhead shot of the Fire Nation ship that Aang and his friends are on.)

Aang: (off screen) Why are we on a Fire Nation ship? Why is everyone dressed this way? And why am I the only one out of it?

(Cut to a shot of Aang and Katara sitting on the deck in front of Appa. Aang is given a red robe by someone is disguise.)

Katara: You need to take it easy, o.k? You got hurt pretty bad. I like your hair.
Aang: (shocked and feeling his scalp) I have hair? How long was I out?
Katara: A few weeks.

(Hakoda enters the shot of Katara.)

Hakoda: Everything ok?
Katara: (looking away) We're fine, Dad.
Hakoda: (offering Aang his hand) I'm Hakoda, Katara and Sokka's father.
Katara: (annoyed) He knows who you are. I just called you "Dad", didn't I?
Hakoda: I guess you're right. 
Aang: Nice to officially meet you, Chief Hakoda (offers his hand).
Hakoda: (grabs Aang's arm) It's an honor to meet you. 
Katara: (annoyed) Great, great. Now you guys have finally met, so would you mind giving us a little privacy?
Hakoda: Of course.

(Hakoda walks off. Cut to a shot of Aang and Katara and the foreground. Hakoda is seen in the background petting Appa.)

Aang: Are you mad at your dad or something?
Katara: What? Not at all, why would you say that?
Aang: Mmm-emmm (shrugs, but almost immediately groans and holds his side in pain).
Katara: Maybe we should go upstairs. You need a healing session. 

(Katara helps Aang to his feet. Fade to a shot of the back of Aang's head. He and Katara and back in his room. The camera points down Aang's back and focuses on the scar left by Azula's lightning. Cut to a shot in front of Aang sitting cross legged on a short platform. Katara is standing behind him and bends the water out of two bowls on either side of Aang and places the water onto his wound.) 

Katara: Tell me where your pain feels most intense. (Aang's eyes are squeezed shut and he gives a soft grunt of pain.)
Aang: A little higher. 

(The camera quickly zooms in on Aang's eye. The screen flashes and we see a short flashback of Aang entering the Avatar state during "The Crossroads of Destiny". Cut back to Aang's eye, then cut to a shot of Katara moving the healing water over Aang's back and shoulders.) 

Aang: Wow, you are definitely in the right area there.
Katara: I can feel a lot of energy twisted up around there. Let me just see if I can...

(Katara pulls the healing water up and away from Aang's scar. Aang arches his back painfully and the screen flashes before cutting to a flashback of Aang being hit by lightning in the Avatar state then Katara holding Aang's body on Appa. The flashback fades to white and the scene shifts back to a profile shot of Aang recovering from the shock.)

Aang: I went down! I didn't just get hurt, did I? It was worse than that. I was gone. But you brought me back.
Katara: I just used the spirit water from the North Pole. I don't know what I did, exactly. 
Aang: You saved me.
Katara: (places a hand on Aang's cheek) You need to rest.

(The camera zooms out from the shot of Aang and Katara. The scene cuts to a shot of the Fire Nation capital city and harbor. Cut to Lo and Li, who are seated on top of a very high balcony at the royal plaza facing a large crowd of Fire Nation citizens. Behind them is a large archway filled with flames.)

Li and Lo:Your Princess Azula, clever and beautiful, disguised herself as the enemy and entered the Earth Kingdom's capital. In Ba Sing Se she found her brother, Zuko, and together, they faced the Avatar. And the Avatar fell, and the Earth Kingdom fell. 

(The screen flashes white and the scene changes to a flashback of the Dai Li standing at the top of Ba Sing Se's outer wall) 

Li and Lo: (voice over) Azula's agents quickly overtook the entire city. They went to Ba Sing Se's Great Walls, and brought them down! 

(The Dai Li jump off and begin sliding down the die of the wall, using earthbending to weaken it. The Dai Li agents land on the ground and spring forward, slamming their gloved fists into the wall and causing a large section of it to collapse.) 

Lo and Li: (voice over) The armies of the Fire Nation surged through the wall and swarmed over Ba Sing Se, securing our victory. 

(Cut to a shot of Fire Nation soldiers marching past the tea shop in the outer ring. Cut to a shot of Pao peeking through the doorway and chewing his fingernails in fear. Jin can be seen behind him, looking shocked. Cut to Fire Nation soldiers riding komodo rhinos through the streets. A rhino passes by the camera, revealing Than holding Ying and Hope. Hope and Ying begin to cry and Than pulls them closer. Cut to a shot of Fire Nation tanks driving up to the Earth King's palace. The scene fades to white and flashes back to a shot of Lo and Li.) 

Li and Lo: Now the heroes have returned home. Your princess, Azula! 

(Cut to a profile shot of Azula. The camera pans right as she walks towards the edge of the balcony and the crowd cheers for her.) 

Li and Lo: And after three long years, your prince has returned. Zuko!

(Cut to Zuko walking out onto the balcony and facing the crowd. The Fire Nation citizens cheer for him as he sullenly gazing over the crowd. The scene shifts to the Fire Nation ship gliding through the water. Cut to a shot of Sokka sitting on top of a crate on the deck, surrounded by the rest of his friends and family. They are all eating bowls of noodles.)

Sokka: After what happened in Ba Sing Se, we had to get you to safety. 

(The scene flashes back to a shot of Appa flying away from Ba Sing Se.) 

Sokka: (voice over) We flew back to  Chameleon Bay, where we found my father and the other Water Tribe men. 

(Cut to shot of Appa flying over Chameleon Bay. The camera turns right as Appa flies over a fleet of Water Tribe ships.) 

Sokka: (voice over) The Earth King decided he wanted to travel the world in disguise, so he set off alone. 

(Cut to a shot of the Earth King smiling rising up into the camera's view. The camera quickly zooms out as he removes his hat and formal garb, revealing nomad clothes underneath.)

Sokka: (voice over) Well, not completely alone. 

(Bosco walks on screen from the right and rips off clothes. The Earth King waves goodbye before climbing on Bosco's back and riding off.)

Sokka: (voice over) Soon, the bay was overrun with Fire Nation ships. Rather than fight them all, we captured a single ship and made it our disguise. 

(Cut to a shot of two small Water Tribe canoes sneaking up on a Fire Nation ship at night. Cut to three Water Tribe warriors wearing masks climbing on board the Fire Nation ship. The scene fades to white and flashes back to a close up of a map of the northern Earth Kingdom.)

Sokka: (off screen) Since then, we've been traveling west (points to Chameleon Bay and moves his finger across The Serpent's Pass). We crossed through The Serpent's Pass a few days ago. We've seen a few Fire Nation ships, but none have bothered us. 
Aang: So, what now?
Hakoda: We've been working on a modified version of the invasion plan.
Katara: (annoyed) It's Sokka's invasion plan.
Hakoda: Yes, Sokka's plan. We won't be able to mount a massive invasion without the Earth King's armies, but the solar eclipse will still leave the Fire Nation vulnerable. 
Sokka: So we're planning a smaller invasion. Just a ragtag team of our friends and allies from around the Earth Kingdom. We already ran into Pipsqueak and The Duke.

(Cut to a shot of Pipsqueak with The Duke seated on his shoulders. Both are eating.)

Pipsqueak: Good to see you again, Aang.
Sokka: And the best part is, the eclipse isn't even our biggest advantage. (whispering) We have a secret (looks left and right). You!
Aang: Me?
Sokka: Yep, the whole world thinks you're dead! (stands up and raises his arms triumphantly) Isn't that great?!

(Cut to a close up of Aang. Shock is plastered on his face as the camera zooms in. Cut to commercial.)



Act II

(The show returns to an overhead shot of the stolen Fire Nation ship moving towards an island in the distance. Cut to Aang looking over the side of the ship and looking shocked.)

Aang: The world thinks I'm dead? How is that good news? That's terrible!
Sokka: No, it's great. It means the Fire Nation won't be hunting us anymore. And even better, they won't expect you on The Day of Black Sun.
Aang: No, no, no, no, no. You have no idea. This is so messed up! 

(The horn of another ship blares. The camera pans left as Sokka looks over. Cut to a shot of another Fire Nation ship approaching up ahead. Cut back to Aang.)

Aang: I'll handle this. The Avatar is back! 

(Aang grabs his glider staff and slams it on the floor, opening its wings, but it causes him to flinch in pain and clutch his side. Bearing through it, Aang grabs the glider's wings and prepares to take off. Cut to an overhead shot of the group.)

Katara: Aang, wait. Remember, they don't know we're not Fire Nation.

(Cut back to Aang. Sweating heavily, he reluctantly folds his glider up. Cut to Hakoda and Bato.)

Hakoda: Everyone just stay calm. Bato and I will take care of this.

(Bato and Hakoda don their Fire Nation helmets. Cut to Pipsqueak lifting up The Duke, who is wrapped in a large piece of tarp. He throws The Duke over Appa, who is sitting in a cargo pit, letting the tarp unravel and cover the flying Bison. Momo jumps into the pit with Appa. Cut to a shot of Aang and Toph crouching inside the stairway leading below the deck. Katara and Sokka join them.)

Aang: (whispering) I hate not being able to do anything.
Toph: Hopefully, you won't need to.

(Cut to an overhead shot of the ships stopping parallel to each other. A bridge lowers across the gap between the two. Cut to a close up of a Fire Nation officer crossing the ship. Two Fire Nation soldiers follow closely behind. Cut to the officer's p.o.v. as he walks up to Bato and Hakoda, who glance at each other. Cut to a shot of the officer setting foot on the ship. Hakoda bows to the officer.)

Fire Nation Officer: Commander, why are you off course? All Western Fleet ships are supposed to be moving toward Ba Sing Se to support the occupation. 
Hakoda: Actually, we're from the Eastern Fleet. We have orders to deliver some cargo.
Fire Nation Officer: Ah, Eastern Fleet. Well, nice of Admiral Chan to let us know he was sending one of his ships our way.
Bato: I am sure Admiral Chan meant no disrespect, sir. 
Fire Nation Officer: I mean, how hard is it to write a quick note and send a hawk our way?
Hakoda: Next time, we'll send two hawks to be sure you get the message.

(Hakoda and the officer bow to each other before Bato and Hakoda walk off. Cut to a close up of the officer and the two soldiers.)

Fire Nation Soldier: Sir, Admiral Chan has been on leave for two months at Ember Island.
Fire Nation Officer: What? Why doesn't anyone ever tell me anything? Something's not right. They should've known that. I think this is a captured ship. (whispering) Just stay quiet until we're safely across the ramp. Then we'll sink this ship!

(The officer and the soldiers begin to walk back across the bridge. The camera tilts down to show Toph listening to the officer and then looking shocked when she hears his last sentence. Toph climbs out of the stairway and pointing at the officer.)

Toph: They know!

(Toph thrusts her hand towards the floor. Cut to a close up of Toph's hand grabbing the metal and twisting it. The camera tilts up as Toph bends a fissure in the metal leading all the way up to the bridge. The bridge buckles, and the officer and the soldiers lose their balance just as the bridge falls out from underneath them. Cut to a downward shot of the bridge, soldiers, and officer, yelling in fear, falling into the water below. Cut to a close up of Katara. The camera zooms out as she bends a small mountain of water up between the ships. She turns in a circle and thrusts her arms forward. The water slams into the side of the other ship, knocking it back several yards. Cut to a shot of the water washing onto the enemy ship's deck, and then quickly cut to an overhead shot of the two ships. The stolen Fire Nation ship begins to make its escape. Cut to a shot at the water's level of a rope ladder being tossed over the side of the Fire Nation ship to the officer and the soldiers floating in the sea, which the officer grabs and begins to climb.

 The scene shifts to an overhead shot of Zuko sitting at the edge of the turtle duck pond at the Fire Nation capital. Cut to a close up of Zuko tearing a bread bun in half before throwing it into the pond. Cut to a close up of the mother turtle duck and its ducklings swimming up to the floating bread and feeding on it. The camera zooms out just as Azula's shadow passes over the turtle ducks, scaring them off. Cut to a shot of Azula standing in front of Zuko with the turtle ducks swimming off screen and quacking in fright.)

Azula: You seem so downcast. Has Mai gotten to you already? Though actually, Mai has been in a strangely good mood lately. 
Zuko: I haven't seen Dad yet. I haven't seen him in three years, since I was banished.
Azula: So what?
Zuko: So, I didn't capture the Avatar.
Azula: (gesturing) Who cares? The Avatar's dead. Unless you think he somehow miraculously survived.

(Zuko looks down and away from Azula. The screen flashes white and the scene cuts to a flashback of Katara holding the spirit oasis water during "The Crossroads of Destiny".)

Katara: This is water from the Spirit Oasis, at the North Pole. It has special properties, so I've been saving it for something important.

(The screen flashes white and the scene shifts back to the present.)

Zuko: No. There's no way he could've survived.

(Cut to and zoom in on Azula staring Zuko down, and then to Zuko matching Azula with a glare. Cut to a shot of Azula from over Zuko's shoulder.)

Azula: Well, then I'm sure you have nothing to worry about.

(Azula leaves, exiting off screen. The scene shifts to a close up of a fire bender moving onto screen. The camera quickly zooms out as he ignites an oil covered rock loaded onto a trebuchet. The trebuchet is fired and the camera tilts up as the flaming ammo is flung into the air towards the stolen Fire Nation ship. Cut to a shot of the ignited boulder hitting the water, just missing the stolen ship. Cut to a wide, overhead shot of the Fire Nation ship firing again at the stolen ship. Cut back to the side of the stolen ship. The flaming boulder hits the hull. Everyone on the ship try to regain their balance as it tips. Cut to a close up of Toph before zooming out. She enters an earthbending stance as The Duke stands behind her.)

Toph: Load the Toph!

(Cut to a shot of Pipsqueak heaving a big stone disc over his head. He sets the disc in front of Toph. Cut to a shot of Toph's feet. The camera pans right as she takes two steps forward, slamming her left foot into the floor and popping the disc into the air in front of her. The camera zooms in on Toph just as she turns and shoves the stone disc with her palms, shooting it at the enemy ship. Cut to a shot of the stone disc flying across the water towards the Fire Nation ship. It hits the trebuchet, demolishing it. The camera quickly pans over to another trebuchet being fired. Cut back to Toph launching another disc. Cut to a wide shot between the two ships. The flaming boulder and the stone disc collide in the air and explode. 

Cut to Aang and Sokka hiding inside the hall leading to the bridge, both on either side of the doorway leading out to the deck. Outside, a fireball can be seen hitting the water and causing a big splash. Aang attempts to run out and help in the battle, but Sokka grabs his shoulders and shakes his head, stopping Aang. Aang goes back to his hiding spot and knocks his head against his staff in frustration. Cut to a shot of a ballista on the enemy Fire Nation ship pointing downwards and firing. The chained, metal projectile shoots into the water and punctures the hull of the stolen ship. Cut to a shot of the inside of the hull being pierced by the projectile, causing a huge leak. Cut to a shot of the puncture from the outside as water begins to rush in. The chain connected to the projectile is pulled taught. Cut back to the inside of the hull as the projectile is pulled out, expanding the breach and flooding the hull even more. Cut to an overhead shot of Katara at the edge of the deck looking down at the breach. Katara waves her arms upwards. The camera zooms out as Katara pushes her palms down and exhales freezing mist towards the hole in the hull. The mist descends down the ship toward the breach. Cut to a close up of the hole freezing over before cutting to a close up of Katara.)

Katara: I'm gonna give us some cover! 

(Katara presses her arms down, pushing down the water between the two ships. Cut to a close up of the water's surface. A cloud of mist forms and rises up. Cut to a shot behind Katara as she lifts her arms up and bends a huge cloud of mist into the air. She pushes her arms out, making the mist float behind the stolen ship, clouding the view. Cut to a wide overhead shot of the mist engulfing both ships. Cut to Toph, The Duke, Bato and Hakoda on deck. The all run when a fireball pierces through the mist. Cut to a shot of Pipsqueak standing by a load of stone discs. He drops the disc he is holding and runs away just before the fireball smashes into the pile of discs. Cut to Aang and Sokka who are still hiding. They are both shaken by the last attack as the debris and smoke fly past the doorway.)

Aang: I can't just stand by and do nothing!(Aang rushes outside.)
Sokka: Aang! No! 

(Cut to a close up of Sokka's hand grabbing Aang's staff. Quickly zoom out to a shot of Aang and Sokka.) 

Sokka: You're still hurt, and you have to stay secret. Just let us handle this.
Aang: Fine!

(Aang angrily snatches his staff away from Sokka and storms off screen. There is another explosion and Sokka is caught in a wave of smoke. Cut to a wide overhead shot of the ships exiting the mist cloud. Another fireball is fired from the enemy ship and it hits the back end of the stolen ship's deck. Cut to a shot of Katara shielding herself from the attack. The camera quickly zooms out to show the engine on fire in the foreground. Katara bends water up from below and throws it at the fire, extinguishing it. Cut to a shot of Sokka, Toph, and The Duke.)

Toph: How we doing?
Sokka: Things couldn't get much worse. 

(Suddenly, the giant serpent from The Serpent's Pass bursts from the water behind Sokka. The camera zooms out to show the serpent towering over the ship and screeching. Cut to Sokka, Toph, and The Duke.) 

Sokka: The Universe just loves proving me wrong, doesn't it?
Toph:You make it so easy!

(Cut to a shot of the serpent towering over the ship. It is about the strike when a fireball from the enemy ship strikes it in the head. Cut to a close up of the serpent, showing a charred mark where the fireball hit. The camera zooms out to a wide shot of both ships and the serpent in the background. The serpent dives into the water. Cut to an overhead panning right shot of the serpent swimming under the stolen ship and then under the enemy Fire Nation ship. The serpent emerges and wraps its body around the vessel. Cut to a shot of Sokka and Pipsqueak running up to the edge of the deck. Sokka is shocked to see the serpent attacking the other ship. Cut to a shot of Sokka, Katara and Pipsqueak in the foreground slowly moving away from the sight of the serpent attacking the Fire Nation ship in the background.)

Sokka: Thank you, The Universe!

(The scene fades to an overhead shot of a merchants' pier. The camera tilts down to show the stolen Fire Nation ship docked. Cut to a shot of water dripping from a grating in the ceiling of Aang's room. Cut to a shot of Aang lying on his bed and staring up at the ceiling. He looks over at his door as Toph, Katara, and Sokka enter the room.)

Toph: Hey, Aang, we're going into town to find some dinner.

(Cut to a close up of Aang's stomach. He clutches it as it growls and the camera tilts up to his face.)

Aang: Well, I am pretty hungry. Maybe dinner's a good idea.
Sokka: (pulls out a red headband) Here, tie this around your head. It'll cover your arrow.
Aang: I'm not going out if I can't wear my arrow proudly. 
Sokka: Aang, be practical.
Katara: You guys go ahead without us. We'll catch up with you. 

(Sokka and Toph leave the room. Cut to a shot of Aang laying on his bed and tapping his finger.) 

Katara: I think I understand why being a secret bothers you so much. (places a hand on Aang's shoulder The camera tilts up to Katara) You don't want people to think you failed.
Aang: You're right, I don't. But the problem is, I did fail.
Katara: Aang, that's not true.
Aang: It is true. I was in Ba Sing Se. I was there, but I lost. And now, the Earth Kingdom has fallen for good. 
Katara: Remember, there's still an invasion plan.
Aang: (angry) And I hate the invasion plan, too! I don't want you or anyone else risking your lives to fix my mistakes. (grabs the tapestry above his bed and rips it off its hanger, throwing it to the floor and knocking over his staff) I've always known that I would have to face the Fire Lord, but now, I know I need to do it alone.
Katara: Aang.
Aang: Katara, please. Just go, please.

(Cut to a shot of Katara. She tilts her head down sadly and makes her way to the door.)

Katara: Is there anything you need? 

(The camera pans right to a close up of the right side of Aang's face.)

Aang: I need to redeem myself. I need my honor back.

(The scene fades to a close up of the scarred side of Zuko's face. He is walking down a large hallway inside the Fire Nation palace. Cut to Zuko's feet. The camera tilts up toward his face, which looks worried. Cut to a shot behind Zuko as he stands in front of an archway covered by a red curtain with a gold symbol of the Fire Nation on it. Zuko takes a deep breath, braces himself and walks forward, parting the curtain. The camera zooms in, revealing the Fire Lord's throne room. The throne room is filled with dark, ornate pillars. Fire Lord Ozai sits on his throne up on the dais, separated from the rest of the throne room by a trench of fire. Cut to a close up of Ozai, shrouded in shadow. There is a quick shot of Zuko before the scene shifts to the hallway outside Aang's room. Katara enters the view carrying a tray of food and inside.)

Katara: I brought you some food. 

(Cut to Katara's p.o.v. She looks left and right, finding no sight of Aang. Cut to a close up of Katara) 

Katara: Oh no!

(Cut to a shot of Katara feet. The tray falls to the ground and the food spills onto the floor as Katara runs out of the room. Cut to Aang flying through the clouds on his glider. The scene changes to an overhead shot of the Fire Lord's throne room. The camera tilts up towards Ozai. Cut to a shot of Zuko falling to his knees and bowing before his father.)

Ozai: You have been away for a long time. I see the weight of your travels has changed you. You have redeemed yourself my son (stands up and walks forward).

(Cut and zoom in to a close up of Zuko looking up. Cut to a shot of Ozai's chest. The camera tilts up and reveals Ozai's face for the first time.) 

Ozai: Welcome home.

(Cut to commercial break.)



Act III

(The scene opens back to a faraway shot of Aang flying over open water. Cut to a close up of Aang, wincing from his wounds. He loses altitude and almost hits the water before regaining control. Cut to an overhead shot of the top of the bridge tower of the stolen Fire Nation ship. Cut to a shot of Bato and Hakoda. Katara runs up to them, tears in her eyes.)

Bato: I'll leave you two alone.

(Bato walks off screen and Katara walks up to Hakoda.)

Hakoda: What's wrong Katara?
Katara: He left. 
Hakoda: What?
Katara: (frustrated)Aang. He just took his glider and disappeared. He has this ridiculous notion that he has to save the world alone. That it's all his responsibility. 
Hakoda: Maybe that's his way of being brave.
Katara: (angry) It's not brave. It's selfish and stupid. We could be helping him. And I know the world needs him, but doesn't he know how much that we need him too? How could he just leave us behind?

(There is a brief moment of silence as Hakoda lets Katara's words sink in.)

Hakoda: You're talking about me too, aren't you?
Katara: (crying) How could you leave us, Dad? I mean, I know we had Gran Gran, and she loved us, but...but we were just so lost without you.

(Katara turns away and sobs. Hakoda puts a hand on her shoulder.)

Hakoda: I am so sorry, Katara. 

(Katara hugs Hakoda and continues to cry into his chest. Hakoda returns the embrace.)
Katara: (crying)I understand why you left. I really do, and I know that you had to go, so why do I still feel this way? I was so sad and angry, and hurt.
Hakoda: I love you more than anything. You and your brother are my entire world. I thought about you every day I was gone, and every night when I went to sleep. I would lay awake missing you so much, it would ache.

(Cut to a close up of Hakoda. The camera tilts down to Katara, tears running down her cheeks, before the scene cuts to the Fire Lord's throne room. Zuko kneels on the floor before as he paces to the left.)

Ozai: I am proud of you, Prince Zuko. I am proud because your sister conquered Ba Sing Se. I am proud because, when your loyalty was tested by your treacherous uncle, you did the right thing, and captured the traitor. And I am proudest of all of your most legendary acco mplishment. You slayed the Avatar.

(Cut to a profile shot of Ozai as he walks around behind Zuko. The camera tilts down to Zuko as he raises his eyebrow in surprise.)

Zuko: What did you hear?
Ozai: Azula told me everything. She said she was amazed and impressed with your power and ferocity at the moment of truth.

(There is a brief close up of Zuko looking away before the scene cuts to a shot of Aang gliding barely a foot over the ocean. The wing of his glider dips into the water as Aang tries to keep control. Briefly cut to a close up of Aang before cutting to a panning right shot of a blockade of Fire Nation ships.)

Aang: Blockade.

(Cut back to Aang as he takes a huge breath. Cut to an overhead shot of Aang as he collapses his glider and dives into the water. Aang torpedoes through the water and under the blockade, scaring away three green sealguanas. Cut to a shot of Aang popping out of the water on the other side. He catches his breath and is clearly exhausted. Aang spots a large peace of drift wood and swims over to it. Aang grabs on to it and smiles as an idea comes into his head. Cut to a quick zooming out shot of Aang windsurfing, using the driftwood as a board and his glider staff as a sail and bouncing over the waves. Fade to another shot of Aang wind surfing, but now it is raining heavily. Aang struggles to hang on as the board bounces high into the air. Aang hits the water, but wipes out. He disappears into the waves and the glider staff towards the camera just before cutting to a tilting up shot of the Fire Nation royal palace. Cut to a shot of Azula lying in her bed. The door opens and the light shines in, casting Zuko's shadow over Azula.)

Zuko: Why'd you do it?
Azula: (eyes closed) You're going to have to be a little more specific.
Zuko: Why did you tell Father That I was the one who killed the Avatar?
Azula: Can't this wait until morning?
Zuko: (sternly) It can't
Azula: (Sighs, opens her eyes and sits up) Fine. You seemed so worried about how father would treat you because you hadn't captured the Avatar. I figured, if I gave you the credit, you'd have nothing to worry about.
Zuko: But why? 
Azula: (gets out of bed)  Call it a generous gesture. I wanted to thank you for your help, and I was happy to share the glory. 
Zuko: You're lying.
Azula: (walks past Zuko) If you say so. 
Zuko: You have another motive for doing this. I just haven't figure out what it is.
Azula: Please, Zuko. What ulterior motive could I have? What could I possibly gain by letting you get all the glory for defeating the Avatar? Unless somehow, the Avatar was actually alive. All that glory would suddenly turn to shame and foolishness. But you said yourself that was impossible. Sleep well, Zuzu.

(Azula lays her head on her pillow and closes her eyes. Cut to a shot of Zuko walking out of the room and down the hall. The scene cuts to a lightning strike in the sky. Cut to Aang desperately trying to hang on to the drift wood and not be swept away. He reaches out to his glider as it floats further away. Aang yells as he is caught in a huge wave and is plunged beneath the water. Aang swims back up and grab a hold of the drift wood. Cut to a very close profile shot of Aang.)

Aang: I'm not gonna make it. I failed. 

(There is another flash of lightning and the spirit of Avatar Roku appears before Aang.)

Aang: Roku?
Roku: You haven't failed, Aang. 
Aang: But everyone thinks I am dead again. They think I've abandoned them, and I'm losing this war. I'm letting the whole world down. 
Roku: If anyone is to blame for the state of the world, it is me. I should've seen this war coming, and prevented it. You inherited my problems and my mistakes. But I also believe you are destined to redeem me, and save the world. 
Aang: I don't know.

(A beam of moonlight casts over Aang.)

Yue: (off screen) You already saved the world. 

(Aang looks up to the sky. The camera tilts up to show the moon shining through the clouds. The spirit of Yue appears in front of it.)

Yue: And you'll save the world again. But you can't give up.

(Yue descends towards Aang. Cut to a shot of Aang staring in wonder. His expression quickly turns to determination.)

Aang: You're right. I won't give up.

(Aang waves his arm in a circle. The camera zooms out far as Aang bends a large wave of water behind him, pushing him forward. Cut to a shot of Aang climbing on top of the drift wood and riding it like a surfboard. He waves his hands to both sides and picks up speed. Cut to a shot behind the wave. The camera tilts up and zooms out to show Yue, her back to the camera, raising her arms, making the wave grow even higher. Cut to a shot of the wave rolling across the ocean. 

Cut to a shot of Aang riding on top of it and towards the camera. Cut back to Yue as she ascends back to the moon. The scene fades to a shot of Crescent Moon Isle. Lava trails flow from the top of the volcano and down into the sea. The camera tilts up to one part of the shore where the lava has not touched. Cut to a shot of Aang lying unconscious on the rocky shore. The camera tilts up towards the top of the still active volcano. Fade to another shot of the isle, only now it is dawn. Cut to a profile shot of Aang still unconscious. Momo jumps onto Aang's chest from off screen and licks Aang's cheek, awakening him. Momo hops off Aang as he groans and sits up. Cut to a shot of Katara running to Aang. Sokka and Toph follow after. Katara drops to her knees and hugs Aang's head.)

Katara: You're ok!

(Toph, Sokka, Momo and Appa all gather around and form a group hug. After a moment, Aang breaks away.)

Aang: I have so much to do. 
Katara: I know, but you'll have our help.
Toph: You didn't think you could get out of training just by coming to the Fire Nation, did you?
Aang: What about the invasion?
Sokka: We'll join up with my dad and the invasion force on the day of the eclipse. 
Toph: Hey, what's... (grabs Aang's broken and burnt glider from out of the water) Oh...it's your glider.

(Toph hands the glider to Aang as they all stand up.)

Aang: That's okay. If someone saw it, it would give away my identity. It's better for now that no one knows I'm alive.

(Aang turns around and jumps onto a mound that trickling out lava. Cut to a close up of Aang and zoom in as he looks down solemnly. Aang spins the glider above his head and slams it into the lava end first before jumping away. Cut to a shot of the glider sticking out of the mound and zoom out. It ignites and is consumed by the flames.)



[End Credits]
Back to overviewBack to top